---
layout: episode
permalink: /stops/1/
type: stop
section_title: Introduction
title: Welcome to the first stop in the tour
page_rank: 1
stop_id: 1
audio_file: 1_Eng_Understanding_Orientalism.mp3
hero_images:
 - path: Orientalism_1.jpg
   alt_text: First example photo for stop 1
 - path: 01-introduction-02.jpg
   alt_text: Second example photo for stop 1
---

<!---

Replace this section of text with the full transcript of your audio guide stop. Use a second level heading to flag the person speaking

## Person speaking (second level heading)

> And this blockquote is styled to make it clear that this section really is someone speaking. Colored text 

And we can go back to a normal transcript. White text

### A third level heading - COlored

The example audio used here is borrowed from [NASA](http://www.nasa.gov/connect/sounds/index.html#Discovery) under the terms of their [usage guidelines](http://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/guidelines/index.html). This is just a test clip, so you'll need to replace it!

--->


# Understanding Orientalism
## Narrator: Jane Doe

>Welcome to the Uncovering Orientalism Gallery. In this room you will find highlights from Lusail Museum’s world-class collection of Orientalist art. 

>Sheikh Jassim lived during a period when Western Europe and North America were captivated by the Indian Ocean World and the Orientalist gaze was expanding. 

>The collection gives us an insight into the movement of ideas and differing perspectives if we understand how to look at it. 

>What do we mean by ‘Orientalism’?   

>Orientalism refers to ‘Western’ representations, imitations and often, misinterpretations of the ‘Eastern’ world.  

>In art we might find this through the medium of paintings, sketches, photographs, ceramics or fashion.  

>This work by French painter Jean-Léon Gérôme is a beautiful depiction of a musician. So realistic, one might think it captures a particular moment in time. But like many Orientalist painters, Gérôme often painted from his studio where he employed models to pose and drew inspiration from photographs or artefacts he had collected on his travels. 

>Is it important to understand the context of how an artwork was made?  

>Many Orientalist artists travelled or lived across parts of North Africa, the Middle East and the Indian Ocean World. Some took great care to accurately document their experiences while others painted entirely from their imaginations.  

>Some artists accompanied diplomats on missions, or soldiers in battle; others simply painted what was fashionable for commercial means. 

>Is knowing the artist’s intention important to understanding a piece of art? 

>We invite you to explore this gallery with a critical eye. What can these collections, taking a particular perspective at a particular time, reveal about our world today? Do artists’ motivations and the meanings behind objects stay the same over time, or can we consider them with a fresh perspective? 

<!---
Audio source: Intro to Narrative Pods > R03
--->

